README.md, before:

# metacpan puppet configurations

All machines will be setup identically for now...

## Using Vagrant for development/testing

For development and/or testing the puppet configuration
[vagrant](http://vagrantup.com) can be very handy.

Set up a Debian Squeeze 64bit base box:
Pick one from [vagrantbox.es](http://vagrantbox.es) and add it locally:

    vagrant box add squeeze64 $url

Then (from the repo root directory):

    vagrant up

To create a virtual machine and provision it
(which includes the steps in 'init.sh').

Then ssh in to your vm and start testing:

    vagrant ssh

To build your own machine continue reading...

# Install Debian stable (6.0.4)
    Base iso from http://www.debian.org/distrib/

# Quick Start

To do the pre-Puppet install in one step, run this command from somewhere other
than /etc/puppet and then skip to the "To Run" section below:

    aptitude install curl
    bash <(curl -s https://raw.github.com/CPAN-API/Metacpan-Puppet/master/init.sh)

If you prefer not to run the script above, continue on below.

# We want puppet from backports so...
    # Edit /etc/apt/sources.list add:
    deb http://backports.debian.org/debian-backports squeeze-backports main

# Now install the minimum to get puppet running

To follow the steps manually, copy/paste the commands belo

    apt-get update

    apt-get install openssh-server git
    apt-get -t squeeze-backports install puppetmaster puppet

Should get you puppet 2.7.14 (which fixes a issue with update-rc.d)

    # We don't want puppet running automatically
    update-rc.d -n puppetmaster remove
    update-rc.d -n puppet remove
    update-rc.d -n puppetqd remove

# Setup
    cd /etc
    rm -rf puppet
    git clone git://github.com/CPAN-API/Metacpan-Puppet.git ./puppet

# To Run (start master, run puppet client, stop master)
    /etc/puppet/run.sh dev

You may have to run this a couple of times to get everything setup
correctly (e.g. you have to add lines to /etc/hosts), the very
first time it will take quite a while to run (it has a lot to do!)
You can also use 'n1' for the live server, others will be added over time

Users have ~/.metacpanrc which they may want to 'source' in their .bash_profile

# Copy http certificates
    Copy /home/metacpan/certs directory from existing machine

# Create or update repositories: www, api and others
    # as 'metacpan' user
    perl ~/bin/update_repos

# Where do I start with looking in puppet?

    # Globals & loading specific modules
    manifests/site.pp

    # Server specific
    manifests/nodes/...

    # core metacpan stuff is in here
    modules/metacpan/

    # default loader (which loads everything else)
    modules/metacpan/manifests/init.pp

    # static files and templates are in
    modules/metacpan/files or modules/metacpan/templates

    # Other modules that get used, these are customised
    modules/munin
    modules/elasticsearch
    modules/logrotate
    modules/nginx
    modules/perlbrew

# References

http://www.puppetcookbook.com/

puppetmaster --genconfig

# Notes

5550 to 5559 ports to play with on test box

Commit message:

Clarify what to do after "vagrant ssh".

README.md, after:

# metacpan puppet configurations

All machines will be setup identically for now...

## Using Vagrant for development/testing

For development and/or testing the puppet configuration
[vagrant](http://vagrantup.com) can be very handy.

Set up a Debian Squeeze 64bit base box:
Pick one from [vagrantbox.es](http://vagrantbox.es) and add it locally:

    vagrant box add squeeze64 $url

Then (from the repo root directory):

    vagrant up

To create a virtual machine and provision it
(which includes the steps in 'init.sh').

Then ssh in to your vm and start testing:

    vagrant ssh
    sudo /etc/puppet/run.sh dev

Basically, after you run Vagrant, you can skip to the "To Run" section below
and keep working from there. If you don't want to use Vagrant, but would rather
build your own box manually, continue reading...

# Install Debian stable (6.0.4)
    Base iso from http://www.debian.org/distrib/

# Quick Start

To do the pre-Puppet install in one step, run this command from somewhere other
than /etc/puppet and then skip to the "To Run" section below:

    aptitude install curl
    bash <(curl -s https://raw.github.com/CPAN-API/Metacpan-Puppet/master/init.sh)

If you prefer not to run the script above, continue on below.

# We want puppet from backports so...
    # Edit /etc/apt/sources.list add:
    deb http://backports.debian.org/debian-backports squeeze-backports main

# Now install the minimum to get puppet running

To follow the steps manually, copy/paste the commands belo

    apt-get update

    apt-get install openssh-server git
    apt-get -t squeeze-backports install puppetmaster puppet

Should get you puppet 2.7.14 (which fixes a issue with update-rc.d)

    # We don't want puppet running automatically
    update-rc.d -n puppetmaster remove
    update-rc.d -n puppet remove
    update-rc.d -n puppetqd remove

# Setup
    cd /etc
    rm -rf puppet
    git clone git://github.com/CPAN-API/Metacpan-Puppet.git ./puppet

# To Run (start master, run puppet client, stop master)
    /etc/puppet/run.sh dev

You may have to run this a couple of times to get everything setup
correctly (e.g. you have to add lines to /etc/hosts), the very
first time it will take quite a while to run (it has a lot to do!)
You can also use 'n1' for the live server, others will be added over time

Users have ~/.metacpanrc which they may want to 'source' in their .bash_profile

# Copy http certificates
    Copy /home/metacpan/certs directory from existing machine

# Create or update repositories: www, api and others
    # as 'metacpan' user
    perl ~/bin/update_repos

# Where do I start with looking in puppet?

    # Globals & loading specific modules
    manifests/site.pp

    # Server specific
    manifests/nodes/...

    # core metacpan stuff is in here
    modules/metacpan/

    # default loader (which loads everything else)
    modules/metacpan/manifests/init.pp

    # static files and templates are in
    modules/metacpan/files or modules/metacpan/templates

    # Other modules that get used, these are customised
    modules/munin
    modules/elasticsearch
    modules/logrotate
    modules/nginx
    modules/perlbrew

# References

http://www.puppetcookbook.com/

puppetmaster --genconfig

# Notes

5550 to 5559 ports to play with on test box
